And I do think that the real answer to
this as far as I can see is
cryptocurrency because it is the best
performing asset in the world and of all
time. That's the one thing we can lean
in. It has a huge future in the
exponential age. Technology investing is
the other one. You know, there are
incredible companies doing incredible
things and we're doing stupid things
like, "Yeah, but it's already a two
trillion company." Well, think of the
world I was being talking about. Is
there no reason somebody's not going to
be 20 trillion, 50 trillion? Of course,
some of these companies are going to be
bigger than sovereigns. So, you need to
get your head around everything has
changed. It's really hard for value
stocks and small companies and minor
gold miners or whatever whatever the
past world look like to succeed in this
new world. It's just not going to work.
Bitcoin is sitting near $117,000.
And if you're not paying attention,
you're about to miss the most chaotic
wealth transfer in modern history. It's
been bouncing off key support levels
like a prize fighter who refuses to stay
down. And the charts are screaming a
potential blast past $120,000.
If that happens, we could be staring at
$122,000
in the blink of an eye with a possible
full-on charge toward the previous
$124,500
high. But don't think it's all smooth
sailing. Analysts are whispering about a
short-term trap door down to 110,000 to
112,000, which could be the last great
bargain before the next vertical
moonshot. ETF inflows are flooding in,
exchange balances are drying up, and the
smart money is loading up while the
clueless wait for permission from CNBC.
The rest of this decade, it's shaping up
to be a digital war zone where only two
empires dominate. Advanced technology
and blockchain. Forget the polite
economic forecasts. Currency debasement
is accelerating like a runaway train.
And the so-called everything code isn't
a theory anymore. It's the playbook for
how asset prices explode when the old
money system starts to rot from the
inside. Blockchain has already been the
fastest adopted asset class in human
history. But now it's facing an even
more terrifying challenger. Artificial
intelligence. AI is spreading faster
than governments can comprehend, let
alone regulate, which means the rules of
the economic game are being rewritten in
real time. This isn't innovation. It's a
hostile takeover of the global economy
by code. And while Bitcoin is holding
the crown, the altcoin uprising is
underway. With Bitcoin dominance
slipping to 59%, liquidity is shifting
toward assets that move like lightning
and pay off like lottery tickets.
Ethereum, Salana, XRP. Rate cuts on the
horizon could pour rocket fuel on this
trend, making high-risk, highreward
plays the new safe bet. Raul Pal didn't
mince words. This is a survival of the
smartest moment. The future belongs to
those who embrace these tech
revolutions, not those clinging to the
ashes of the old financial order. Stick
around as we bring you more clips for
further insights into Raul Pal's sharp
market analysis. To stay updated on the
latest financial and cryptocurrency
content, like this video, subscribe to
our channel, and turn on post
notifications. Thanks for joining us
again. Enjoy the rest of the video. You
see my journey as you know had been from
democratizing financial intelligence and
helping people in their financial
journey once trust broke down with the
institutions in the system itself after
2008 and 2012 in Europe. That was the
birth of real vision. The idea was to
educate people in that. As I moved
forwards I started realizing the
profound effects um of the retirement
crisis. this baby boom generation, the
fact that assets had driven further and
further out of most people's reach and
that there was a young cohort and an old
cohort that was really going to face a
lot of problems. I talked for the young
cohort about how cryptocurrency, this
was back in 2016, was going to be one of
the answers to get them out of this trap
and the baby boomers had more
complexities around how they were going
to evolve and survive around this
situation. We, you know, I've talked a
lot about the rise of of digital assets
and then I brought in obviously the
everything code thesis of how debasement
is driving a lot of this and this is our
enemy an 8% debasement a year plus let's
say 3% inflation rate. We've got an 11%
hurdle rate on our investments which the
S&P 500 doesn't even do. So we have to
be very careful in how we protect our
wealth or create wealth. This is part of
this um how to un your future idea
that's based on all of these premises.
But there's something much bigger that
wraps the whole lot together and that's
the theory of the exponential age.
Again, when I came out with the
exponential age in 2020, people thought
I was nuts. I'm like, this is going to
be the fastest growth of technology in
all human history. It's going to be the
largest change we will ever go through
as a species in the shortest period of
time. And people thought I was being
dramatic. Then AI came and everyone's
like, "Holy shit." And now the robots
are coming and everyone's like, "Holy
[__] squared." Um, and now everyone's
trying to figure out what this means for
society, how this all works, how to
regulate it, what to do. But it's moving
at lightning speed. By the time this
video comes out, I don't know, maybe
chat GPT, I think the Strawberry model,
the large model comes out. Uh, that's
coming out very soon. Again, that'll be
another step change. We know there's
more releases coming from Google, but
really we're already hearing that OpenAI
have probably trained ChatGpt 5 or
ChatGpt next as it's called, which is a
quantum leap yet again, as big as the
leap from Chat GBT1 to chat GBT4 when
we're getting closer to something like
artificial intelligence. And so this
video is really about why you've got six
years left to make as much money as
possible be before everything we kind of
understand about economics, markets,
business falls apart. And I can't see
beyond that. So I call it the economic
singularity. So I think we've got about
6 years for that. It's not a doom date.
Well, this date it all happens. But it's
beyond about 2030 when things are going
to become
not understandable by using the existing
frameworks of uh economics, financial
analysis, markets and that kind of
stuff. So what the am I talking about
here? I'm talking about the magic
formula. The magic formula for GDP
growth is driven so sorry I'm just going
to go back is most people look at AI the
rise of AI and think of it again in
societal terms. you know what does it
mean for humans for jobs and all of that
but I think there are more profound
implications that come faster that we
need to be aware of and that's the
economic singularity so GDP growth in
the magic formula is driven by
population growth
productivity growth and debt growth so
population growth in all of the
developed world including uh China we've
got falling aging demographics many
populations are now shrinking the US due
due to immigration is just holding its
head above water but the rate of change
um of population is collapsing
everywhere. So that means that the
economic driver of population growth has
disappeared.
Now we've seen that in GDP because GDP
trend rate of GDP has been falling and
falling and falling and it's gone from
in the US from like 4% to 1.75%.
and across the rest of the developed
world it's fallen even further in most
cases below 1% matching population
growth collapsing in those regions. The
other side of the equation is
productivity growth. Productivity growth
is basically units of output per
kilogjle of energy or in other words
what you get out of your cost of
electricity. So if electricity is the
kind of the energy that makes the world
go around, the economic energy, then we
need to see what we get out of that
energy. So technology has been the big
driver of productivity. But the problem
is as populations get older, they become
less productive. So it's really been a
battle and technology has not won that
battle uh for quite some time. Then
we've had debt growth and I've talked
extensively about debt growth. debt
growth basically stops in 2008 and all
debt growth is now is servicing of old
debts. So that economic engines
disappeared. If you think about the
Chinese economic miracle that was a
massive population at the time I think
it was 1.1 billion people uh back in the
mid '90s and what they did was come into
the global labor force. The economy of
China opened up. That's a massive GDP
push. productivity. Well, they built the
roads, the railways, the power plants,
and all of the stuff that makes China
what it is today. That was a
productivity boost. And then they
increased debt as well. So, we had a
huge economic boom in China, which we're
now paying back with aging population
because of the one child policy. And
we've also got a huge problem uh on the
debt side. How the hell do we solve
this? You see the everything code will
just keep repeating add infin item where
we just have to keep debasing currency
to try and offset the debt payments
because
um GDP growth is not fast enough. So GDP
is the is kind of the economic cash flow
that pays for the debts. If GDP growth
is low, interest rates need to be low,
which is why the Fed are going to cut
and all of those kind of things. But
also, as GDP growth goes lower, debt
growth keeps ballooning and you have to
keep refinancing all of this debt
because there's not enough uh uh growth
to grow your way out of the debt based
economy.
But things started changing the margin
and really accelerated over co firstly
Amazon I think now employs more robots
than it does humans. And this is a trend
I've been pointing out for some time.
Humans are cheaper replaced by robots
that are more productive. They don't
complain. They don't have unions. Um and
over time they're much much cheaper.
So the rise of the robots is just
starting. We're seeing um Tesla with its
Optimus robot. We're seeing Figure uh
we're seeing Boston Dynamics. We're
seeing a whole bunch of robotics
companies. So humanoid robots really
start to replace humans because they
have dexterity. So they don't have to be
for single tasks much like machine
learning was for single tasks and AI is
much broader. Um we're going to see
multitasking robots. So that starts
helping bolster the lack of humans in
the population.
But the robots will take uh longer to
scale. Physical hardware you have to
manufacture it, you have to design it.
We're still at early stage of this. So
yes, we will see Tesla robots and and
others coming into let's say factories,
but in our houses,
it's probably 1015 years away. Um, but
it's coming. Now the the big lever here
is AI. AI is basically infinite human
knowledge. Now why the magic formula
works is because we've charged for and
created an economic system around
scarcity. scarcity of labor and scarcity
of knowledge.
>> In 2016, cryptocurrency was identified
as a potential solution for younger
generations facing these issues while
older generations faced more complex
adaptations.
The impact of currency debasement and
inflation on investments was highlighted
with increasing difficulty in preserving
or growing wealth. In 2020, the concept
of the exponential age was introduced,
describing rapid technological growth
accelerated by AI advancements like chat
GPT. This acceleration is barreling
toward what can only be described as an
economic singularity around 2030, a
point where traditional economic market
and financial frameworks simply
disintegrate. The old playbook of
central banks, interest rates, and
fiscal policy will be as useless as a
rotary phone in a 6G world. Declining
population growth, collapsing
productivity, and stagnating debt
expansion are converging into a perfect
storm. When it hits, wealth won't just
change hands, it will change form. And
only those fluent in the new code will
hold the keys to the future. Let's watch
more clips to gain insights from Ral
Paul. So the end of this decade, this
journey from here to now is knowable. We
know that the everything code is at play
that allows assets to go up due to
debasement. We know that tomorrow will
be more digital than today. The
exponential age told us that and is
provably so. Therefore, invest in the
only two secular markets that exist
right now, which is technology itself
and blockchain technology. Blockchain
has been the fastest uh adoption of any
asset class in history. It was the
fastest growth of any technology in all
human history, but AI is now outpacing
it. So, we have to invest in these
things. I kind of think of it as
investing in our demise as we transition
to a new economic system. There's almost
nothing that can get in the way of this
transition because AI is moving so fast
that regulators have zero chance of
catching up with it. And because it's
globalized, it can just shift and morph.
And so therefore, you need the super
nationals to do something about it. And
that's going to take time. So there's
almost nothing to do to slow it down.
It's going to change the system. It's
going to change how it works.
And we can invest in it. So I think
we've got six years to invest as much as
we can whether it's your brain power or
your capital and both if you can
to make as much difference to un your
future as possible. Now then when 2030
2032 whatever comes along you'll be
better prepared cuz financially
you'll have maybe got yourself in a
position where you've got the house that
you want and some security. Now, as we
go through the 2030s, in a world of
abundance, we don't even know what money
is anymore. So, this becomes more
complicated. So, don't think of it as,
oh, I got my pile of money and
everything's fine. It's more about my
pile of lifestyle. Do I have the
lifestyle I want? Am I protected from
vast societal change? Um, and so I think
we've got six years to do that. Six
years before we don't know how to build
a business, six years before we can't
invest in financial markets. And again,
six years is not a absolute date, but
it's kind of just to give you a rough
idea of how urgent this is. This is the
most urgent thing. This is
sub supplanted or or or changed my focus
from, hey, everybody needs to be
empowered in their financial journey to
you've got six years, sort your [__]
out. Um and so you know part of what
well a lot of what I write about in
global macro investor is this and real
vision is trying to take pe people down
this journey. This six-year journey is
the most important time of anybody's
lives. I can't stress that enough. Um
everything will change including society
around us. And it's not going to be easy
to absorb it. But at least if you're
open-minded, you're adapting to it,
you're investing in it, you're at least
investing in this change as opposed to
fearing the change as it comes. So get
your heads around all of this, focus six
years, it's what counts and make them
count for you and your family. But one
thing that does remain true is that
humans
are social creatures. And so I have a
huge belief in the value of community. I
think communities are going to be where
our purpose lies. This is where this
universal basic equity owning a stake in
a community that you belong to. Whether
it's an economic community or whether
it's a social community or it's a
commonality of purpose community. I
think this is a really really big
concept. But generally speaking,
community is everything. And you know,
one of the things we we're really
leaning into a real vision more than the
blockchain and more than um uh more than
the AI is community because we want to
get together. We want to talk. We want
to be humans together. We want to engage
with each other. We want to enjoy
experiences together. We want to figure
things out together. We want to share
ideas, trade ideas. All of that is what
being human is all about. It gives us
confidence. It gives us a place in
society. And you know, Real Vision will
really focus on that community side of
things. And I think businesses who do
that have a better chance of surviving
this. If you don't have a community and
you're just a product, you're one of the
other ways that this affects the economy
is this is essentially a nuclear bomb of
deflation because everything goes to
zero in value. You can't see it now. The
world's fighting over inflation. You
know, our wages might go up and all of
this stuff. You have no comprehension of
the scale of deflationary shock that
this is going to create because things
that create inflation, humans, their
purchases, human labor, scarcity, well,
they go to abundance. It inverts the
system. So, it's a very complicated
world. And the deflationary shock is
gigantic. It's one of the reasons I do
not believe in secular inflation. I
think people have the wrong marker
stones. People seem to think this is
somewhat akin to the internet. It's not.
It's [__] profound how big this is.
This in infinite intelligence. The
internet was just the rails.
This is the applications layer of which
all of humanity will be based.
And it is extraordinary deflationary
because the AI will solve its own
problems.
So it'll solve its own energy problems.
It will solve its own logistics
problems. it'll solve its own security
problems. So these things get cheaper
and cheaper and cheaper. So as a
deflationary shock, it's huge. Raul Pal
explained that his key research,
including the ideas behind the
exponential age, the everything code,
and the retirement crisis, originated
from his global macro investor service.
He described how David Mattton, a
colleague, developed a dedicated service
called the exponentialist to focus on
the intense six-year period ahead. This
service goes deep into how rapidly
accelerating technologies, especially
AI, create powerful feedback loops and
how these changes impact investment and
business cycles. He emphasized that
cryptocurrency being historically the
best performing asset offers a strong
opportunity in this new era alongside
technology investing. He also
highlighted that many traditional
investment approaches such as value
stocks or small companies may struggle
to thrive in this rapidly evolving
environment. He also underlined the
growing importance of community seeing
it as essential for human purpose and
survival whether economic, social or
shared purpose groups. One major impact
pal pointed out is the vast deflationary
shock coming from technological
abundance which contrasts sharply with
current inflation fears. He said, "AI's
ability to solve its own energy,
logistics, and security problems will
push costs down dramatically, creating
unprecedented deflation that will
challenge conventional economic thinking
and markers. What do you think will be
the biggest challenge for investors as
AI and blockchain reshape the economy
over the next 6 years? Please drop your
thoughts in the comments below. Share
this video and hit your thumbs on the
like button. Thanks for watching. Don't
forget to subscribe.